Uzbekistan plans to export IT services to Europe and the US through Serbia The Serbian IT industry has strong potential in Eastern Europe. Now we can create synergy Serbian firms can take on contracts, and we will help them find specialists in Uzbekistan. This way, both their companies and ours will earn profits. It will help boost exports and create new jobs, Minister of Digital Technologies Sherzod Shermatov said. Kun official channel
Over 35,000 households across Uzbekistan earn a total of 12.8 million from solar energy sales in nine months From January to September 2025, a total of 35,200 households in Uzbekistan received payments under the Solar Home program for selling electricity generated by their solar panels to the national grid. Kun official channel
Energy Ministry says Boysun gas field leak poses no threat The Ministry of Energy has issued an official statement regarding reports of a gas leak at the M-25 field in Boysun district. According to the ministry, gas escaping from well No. 202 was re-ignited after it had temporarily gone out to prevent any harm to the environment. Kun official channel
Snowfall hits Kamchik pass, MES urges drivers to take precautions On 4 November, snowfall was reported in the upper part of Kamchik pass. Employees of the Ministry of Emergency Situations MES , the Traffic Safety Department, and Qamchiqavtoyol are working to clear the road of snow, prevent icing, and spread a sand salt mixture. Rescuers are also assisting drivers stranded along the route. Kun official channel
Gov t to cut prices for 2,600 prescription medicines starting January To eliminate low-quality purchases and reduce corruption risks in healthcare institutions, all state procurements will be conducted through a dedicated electronic platform farma.xarid. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to introduce visa-free regime for U.S. citizens from 2026 By presidential decree, Uzbekistan will lift visa requirements for citizens of the United States beginning 1 January 2026. The measure will allow U.S. citizens to stay in Uzbekistan visa-free for up to 30 days from the date of entry. Kun official channel
Gas leak crisis returns to Boysun after new explosion Another incident has occurred at a gas field in Surkhandarya region, where hydrogen sulfide has been leaking from underground for over a year. According to reports, following an explosion, the flare that burned off the gas to prevent the spread of the odor went out, allowing the stench to fill the air and seep into nearby homes. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev departs for Qatar President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev has departed for Qatar on a working visit at the invitation of the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. Kun official channel
Authorities plan major review of state aviation sector airports, airlines, and Uzaeronavigation under scrutiny Under a presidential decree, the Accounts Chamber has been instructed to conduct a comprehensive audit of entities holding a dominant position in the aviation market by 1 August 2026. The review will be carried out jointly with the Committee for the Development of Competition and Consumer Protection, the Ministry of Transport, and the Ministry of Economy. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan steps up fight against drug abuse and cybercrime On 3 November, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev reviewed proposals aimed at protecting the nation s gene pool from drug addiction, enhancing the effectiveness of efforts to combat cybercrime, and advancing the digitalization of the prosecutorial oversight system. Kun official channel
Deputy Interior Minister Bekmurod Abdullaev dismissed from post Bekmurod Abdullaev has left his position as head of the Department of Public Security, while Rustam Tursunov has stepped down as head of the Department for the Execution of Punishments. Kun official channel
Annual inflation in Uzbekistan eases to 7.8 lowest since 2016 Inflation in Uzbekistan stood at 0.6 in October and 7.8 year-on-year, according to the National Statistics Committee. This marks the lowest annual rate in the past nine years. Over the month, prices for eggs 4.1 , meat 1.6 1.7 , milk 1.2 and gasoline 1.5 rose, while sugar 3.1 and rice 2.5 became cheaper. Kun official channel
Filling stations posing risks to human life to be relocated to safe zones After a series of incidents at filling stations including a deadly explosion in Kashkadarya authorities plan to tighten safety controls and strengthen accountability measures. Kun official channel
Tashkent authorities announce start of heating season According to the decision of the Tashkent city mayor, centralized heating will be supplied to social facilities starting November 3 and to residential buildings from November 5. Kun official channel
Cold air masses to bring rain and snow to parts of Uzbekistan According to Uzhydromet, cold and relatively humid air masses will spread across the country starting Monday. Between November 3 and 5, rain is expected in some areas, while in foothill and mountain regions, precipitation may turn into snow locally heavy on November 4. Kun official channel
UN warns UNESCO and Uzbekistan over unlawful evictions in Samarkand s heritage zone UN human rights experts have called on the Government of Uzbekistan and UNESCO to take immediate action over forced evictions and housing demolitions in Samarkand s historic city center a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site since 2001. Kun official channel
Over 1,300 people killed in road accidents across Uzbekistan since January A total of 5,895 traffic accidents were officially recorded in Uzbekistan between January and September 2025. These incidents resulted in 1,303 deaths and 4,592 injuries. Pedestrians were involved in 2,689 of the accidents. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan repatriates 35 children from Russia who were left without parental care A group of minors who were left without parental supervision or found in vulnerable social conditions in various cities of the Russian Federation have been brought back to Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Overcharged by mistake or by design? Power company s technical error nearly cost telecom firm over UZS 1 billion A telecom operator in Tashkent was found to have been overcharged due to an incorrect meter connection made by the power supplier. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev to visit Qatar At the invitation of the Amir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev will pay a working visit to Qatar on November 3 4 to participate in the Second World Summit for Social Development. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev expected to visit Serbia in early 2026 The announcement came from Serbian President Aleksandar Vu i during his recent visit to Tashkent. He praised Uzbekistan s impressive progress in various areas of public life, describing cooperation with the country as an important step for Serbia in building stronger ties with fast-growing economies. Kun official channel
Turkey may introduce electronic work visas for citizens of Uzbekistan Turkey has expressed readiness to consider launching an electronic work visa system for Uzbek citizens, as both countries move to strengthen cooperation on migration and internal affairs. The proposal was discussed during a meeting between Uzbekistan s delegation and officials from Turkey s Ministry of Interior in Ankara on 27 October. Kun official channel
Navoi shop charged UZS 2 billion for two peppers after clerk error A simple typing mistake in Navoi region resulted in a UZS 2 billion sales receipt for just two peppers, triggering a massive tax liability and a legal dispute. The Justice Ministry reported that the issue was ultimately resolved in court. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan exempts passenger and cargo aircraft from VAT and customs duty The government will allocate UZS 250 billion over three years to modernize airports. A new Aviation Support Fund will be established under the Ministry of Transport. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva Uzbek language program at Oxford will bridge Uzbekistan and the world The University of Oxford has launched its first-ever Uzbek language program, marking a historic milestone in academic and cultural exchange. Saida Mirziyoyeva, who attended the opening ceremony, said the initiative would serve as a bridge connecting Uzbekistan with the wider world. Kun official channel
Tashkent metro's Overground Circle Line opens to passengers According to the Tashkent metro administration, the Overground Circle Line became fully operational for passengers on the morning of November 1. Currently, 12 trains are running along the route with a seven-minute interval between departures. Kun official channel
Competition Committee identifies and eliminates unjustified electricity and gas debts According to the Competition Committee, nationwide inspections have led to the cancellation of unjustified charges in the electricity and gas supply sectors. Consumers who were overbilled had their excess payments refunded. Violations were addressed in several regions, including Samarkand, Tashkent, Khorezm, Jizzakh, Navoi and Kashkadarya. Kun official channel
Tashkent to host 2029 Asian Youth Games The Executive Committee of the Olympic Council of Asia OCA has decided that Tashkent will host the 4th Asian Youth Games in 2029. The announcement was made during the closing ceremony of the 3rd Asian Youth Games held in Bahrain. Kun official channel
koda may launch train assembly plant in Uzbekistan The Czech industrial giant koda Group is expanding its activities in Central Asia and deepening cooperation with Uzbekistan, with plans to establish local assembly of koda trains in the country. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Finland expand partnership in trade, education, and green initiatives Uzbekistan and Finland have signed a comprehensive package of bilateral documents aimed at strengthening cooperation across multiple sectors, including trade, geology, innovation, education, and environmental protection Kun official channel
Asian Youth Games 2025 Uzbekistan finishes second with 37 gold medals Uzbek athletes achieved a record-breaking result at the Asian Youth Games held in Bahrain, winning 37 gold, 16 silver, and 28 bronze medals to claim second place in the overall standings behind China. This marks Uzbekistan s best-ever performance in the history of the Asian Youth Games. Kun official channel
Shadow and informal economy in Uzbekistan rises to 33 of GDP, topping 36 billion Uzbekistan s unobserved economy grew to one-third of the country s GDP in the first nine months of 2025, reaching over 36 billion, according to official data. While the informal sector expanded, the shadow economy s share slightly declined amid ongoing government efforts to increase transparency and formalization. Kun official channel
Banned but paying taxes listed among Uzbekistan s major e-service taxpayers In the first nine months of 2025, taxes paid by foreign companies providing electronic services in Uzbekistan increased by 44 , reaching UZS 124.8 billion. Among the top ten taxpayers was even though the platform remains officially blocked in the country. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev hosts official welcome for Finnish leader ahead of talks On Thursday, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev hosted a ceremonial reception for President of Finland Alexander Stubb, who arrived in Uzbekistan on an official visit. The event took place at the Kuksaroy residence in Tashkent. Kun official channel
Road accidents drop after introduction of penalty point system in Uzbekistan Over 114,000 drivers in Uzbekistan have received penalty points since the system s launch on 1 June, the Traffic Safety Department reported. Officials say the new system has helped cut total road accidents by 6.3 and driver-related crashes by more than 30 in just five months. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan plans to increase electricity exports to Afghanistan Afghanistan has been fully meeting its payment obligations for the electricity supplied from Uzbekistan, said Energy Minister Jurabek Mirzamakhmudov. He noted that the current Afghan government has also repaid the debts inherited from the previous administration. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s trade deficit narrows as exports outpace imports Uzbekistan s foreign trade turnover reached 59.8 billion in the first nine months of 2025, marking a 22.9 increase year-on-year. Exports grew by 33.3 , while imports rose by 15.6 . The growth was largely driven by higher exports of gold and services, as well as intensified trade with China, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, Afghanistan, and India. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to increase base rate for natural gas consumption fivefold during heating season According to the Ministry of Energy, the monthly consumption limit will be set at up to 500 cubic meters from November to February. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan improves its position in Rule of Law Index Uzbekistan has moved up in the World Justice Project s WJP Rule of Law Index, ranking 81st among 143 countries. Kun official channel
Health Ministry denies reports of mask mandate in Tashkent schools The Ministry of Health has denied social media reports claiming that a mask mandate has been introduced in Tashkent schools starting from 30 October. The ministry clarified that these reports stemmed from a misinterpretation of a decision by the Chief State Sanitary Doctor, which is a standard preventive measure issued every year before the seasonal rise in respiratory illnesses. Kun official channel
China remains Uzbekistan s largest investor with nearly 40 share of total foreign investments According to the National Statistics Committee, China accounted for 39.9 of the foreign investments and loans utilized in Uzbekistan between January and September 2025, totaling 24.9 billion. Russia and Turkey followed as the next largest partners. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev calls for global initiatives on education, heritage, and climate at UNESCO conference President Shavkat Mirziyoyev delivered a speech at the opening ceremony of the 43rd session of UNESCO s General Conference in Samarkand, where he proposed several key initiatives aimed at advancing inclusive education, preserving intangible cultural heritage, empowering women through leadership and competence development programs, combating the climate crisis, and addressing the spread of disinformation in the virtual space. Kun official channel
Heating season likely to start in early November as temperatures fall sharply According to current regulations, the heating season in Uzbekistan is supposed to begin after the average daily temperature remains below 8 C for five consecutive days. However, climatologist Erkin Abdulahatov says this rule has never worked in practice because buildings start cooling down even when the daily temperature drops to around 10 C. This is a standard that needs to be revised, he told Kun. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev awards UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay the Order of Friendship President Shavkat Mirziyoyev met with Audrey Azoulay, Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization UNESCO , in Samarkand to discuss the further development of multifaceted cooperation between Uzbekistan and UNESCO. Kun official channel
Commission-free bankcard transfers in Uzbekistan What options are available? Over the past few years, competition among banks has pushed digital payment apps to make one of the boldest moves removing transfer fees entirely. Today, sending money card-to-card can often be done without paying a single penny in commission, but there are limits, and knowing them matters. Watch on
State transport companies ordered to cut service costs by 20 The Ministry of Transport will adopt a resolution to optimize expenses and reduce the cost of services provided by state-owned companies for 2026. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Slovakia expand strategic partnership and trade ties In Samarkand, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev and Slovak President Peter Pellegrini held talks to strengthen strategic partnership relations between Uzbekistan and Slovakia. The discussions also focused on boosting trade, investment, and industrial cooperation in key sectors. Kun official channel
State to compensate residents and property owners affected by New Tashkent airport project Homeowners and farmers whose properties fall within the airport construction zone will receive compensation for their houses, buildings, and land. Kun official channel
Pakhtakor wins Uzbekistan Cup after controversial final Tashkent s Pakhtakor claimed the Uzbekistan Cup title with a narrow victory over Bukhara in a match marked by controversy and a mass brawl in the closing moments. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev to attend opening of UNESCO General Conference session in Samarkand On 30 October, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev will take part in the opening ceremony of the UNESCO s 43rd session, which will be held in Samarkand. Kun official channel
Obid Khakimov replaces Ravshan Gulyamov as Presidential Adviser on Economic Policy Presidential Adviser on Economic Development, Investment, and Foreign Trade Policy Ravshan Gulyamov has been relieved of his duties. Obid Khakimov has taken this role. Kun official channel
People s Artist of Uzbekistan Yoqub Akhmedov dies at 87 Yoqub Akhmedov, a prominent stage actor of the Uzbek National Academic Drama Theatre and People s Artist of Uzbekistan, has passed away at the age of 87. Kun official channel
Gov t to extend social benefits to private sector workers At present, not all employees in the private sector receive benefits for maternity, temporary disability, or job loss. These benefits will gradually be paid through the Social Protection Fund. Starting in 2026, women will become eligible for maternity benefits, and from the second half of 2026, temporary disability benefits will also be introduced. Kun official channel
Officer s shifting statements raise doubts over fairness of trial in abuse case by Fergana police chief In Fergana region, the trial of the head of the Furqat district police department and his deputy continues under restricted media access. During the 24 October hearing, operational officer Yusufbek Yoqubov s courtroom testimony differed sharply from the statement he had given during the investigation. The court s decision to close the hearing to the press under the pretext of state secrecy raises doubts about the transparency and fairness of the trial. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to allocate UZS 1.2 trillion financial support to low-income households during heating season More than 1 million families across Uzbekistan will receive one-time financial assistance this heating season, according to the National Agency for Social Protection. The largest groups of recipients include families with persons with disabilities and households relying solely on pensions. Kun official channel
Andijan man accused of conducting illegal crypto operations worth 5.7 million A resident of Andijan region has been detained for illegally exchanging and conducting cryptocurrency transactions worth around 5.7 million through the HTX platform, the regional law enforcement authorities reported. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan exports 1.5 billion worth of fruit and vegetables in nine months Between January and September 2025, the country supplied 1.6 million tonnes of produce to foreign markets, marking a year-on-year increase of 111,500 tonnes, or 7.5 percent. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan finalize tri-border point agreement Members of the Legislative Chamber have passed a bill ratifying the treaty on the point where the borders of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan meet. The document has been sent to the Senate for consideration. Kun official channel
US dollar exchange rate falls below UZS 12,000 for the first time since August 2023 According to the Central Bank of Uzbekistan, the official exchange rate for October 30 was set at UZS 11,990.53 per US dollar the lowest level recorded since the sharp devaluation on August 10, 2023. Kun official channel
Energy Minister No tariff hikes planned for electricity and gas during autumn winter season Electricity and natural gas prices in Uzbekistan will not increase during the upcoming autumn winter season, Energy Minister Jurabek Mirzamakhmudov announced. Kun official channel
ADB mobilizes record climate investment for Uzbekistan s renewable energy push The Asian Development Bank ADB , in partnership with ACWA Power, Sumitomo Corporation, Chubu Electric Power Co. Inc., and Shikoku Electric Power Co. Inc., has signed a landmark financing agreement to construct two large-scale solar power plants with battery energy storage systems BESS in Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Air Serbia considers launching direct flights to Tashkent or Samarkand Air Serbia, the national carrier of Serbia, is considering launching direct flights to Uzbekistan, exploring two potential destinations Tashkent and Samarkand. Kun official channel
Autumn vibes Tashkent s trees turn fiery shades Kun photographer Muhammadjon Ganiev captured the enchanting scenes of golden autumn in the city. Streets and parks are adorned with trees turning vivid shades of red, orange, and yellow, creating a warm, magical atmosphere. Each corner reflects the serene and cozy spirit of the season. Kun official channel
President of Finland to pay a four-day visit to Uzbekistan At the invitation of President Shavkat Mirziyoyev, President of Finland Alexander Stubb will visit Tashkent from 29 October to 1 November. The high-level talks will focus on expanding political, trade, economic, investment, and cultural-humanitarian cooperation between the two countries. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan tops updated World Boxing rankings The World Boxing organization has released its updated official rankings, placing Uzbekistan s national team in first place overall, followed by Kazakhstan in second. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan aims to increase air passenger traffic to 24 million by 2030 Uzbekistan has identified key priorities for the development of civil aviation, including growth in passenger transportation, an increase in the number of flights, and the establishment of a dedicated industry support fund. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Serbia strengthen partnership with over ten new agreements On October 28, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev and President of Serbia Aleksandar Vu i held talks at the Kuksaroy residence with the participation of official delegations. Kun official channel
Tax revenues from foreign digital services in Uzbekistan up 44 year-on-year From January to September 2025, 73 foreign companies providing electronic services in Uzbekistan paid a total of UZS 124.8 billion in taxes. Kun official channel
Gold slides to three-week low as investors turn to riskier assets Expectations of easing trade tensions between the United States and China have driven down the price of the precious metal. The global price trend has also been reflected in Uzbekistan, where the cost of gold bars fell noticeably the price of a 5-gram bar dropped by 2.3 in a single day and by 8.3 compared to last week. Kun official channel
Microcreditbank employees in Karakalpakstan accused of embezzling nearly UZS 10 billion in client deposits Criminal proceedings have been initiated against 14 employees of the Microcreditbank ATB branch service center in Turtkul district of Karakalpakstan. They are suspected of embezzling a total of UZS 9.58 billion belonging to 17 clients. One of the victims told Kun that he had deposited money earned over many years of working abroad and expressed concern that the court may order compensation from the defendants themselves rather than from the bank. Kun official channel
Growth in household income accelerates in Uzbekistan as remittances surge In the first nine months of 2025, Uzbekistan recorded an 8.4 real increase in total household income and a 6.3 rise in per capita income. At the same time, the income gap between the richest and poorest regions widened to 3.5 times. Remittances from abroad accounted for 21.5 of total household income. According to economist Mirkomil Kholboev, without the growth in remittances, real incomes would have fallen in eight regions. Kun official channel
Kuwaiti company Noor shows interest in Uzbekistan s Islamic banking sector Kuwait-based Noor Financial Investment Company has expressed interest in exploring investment opportunities in Uzbekistan, particularly in the Islamic banking sector. Kun official channel
Japan, Serbia and Dominican Republic appoint new ambassador to Uzbekistan Uzbekistan has welcomed new diplomatic representatives from Japan, the Dominican Republic, and Serbia, strengthening bilateral ties and expanding cooperation across multiple sectors. Kun official channel
Uzbek nationals caught trying to smuggle over 61 kg of gold in Turkey Authorities in Turkey have detained Uzbek nationals who attempted to smuggle over 61 kg of gold into the country by concealing it inside small household appliances. Kun official channel
External borrowing linked to budget deficit Central Bank chief Uzbekistan s external borrowing is directly related to the budget deficit, the head of the Central Bank, Timur Ishmetov, stated. According to him, despite the growth in absolute amounts of external debt, its share relative to GDP is declining. Kun official channel
Chinese firm may invest in the construction of a 200 MW hydroelectric plant in Andijan A hydroelectric power plant may be built in Andijan with Chinese cooperation. The regional administration and Sichuan Power Transmission Transformation Construction company have agreed to implement a 500 million investment project to construct a 200 MW hydroelectric power plant and modernize existing substations. Kun official channel
Central Bank calls for reducing tariff and non-tariff barriers in trade Timur Ishmetov, Chairman of the Central Bank of Uzbekistan, outlined the fundamental factors driving price increases, emphasizing the need to strengthen competition, liberalize foreign trade by reducing tariff and non-tariff restrictions, decrease import concentration, ensure energy stability, and improve transport infrastructure to bring inflation down. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan reimburses UZS 13.5 trillion in VAT to businesses in nine months The largest share of VAT refunds UZS 9.2 trillion was directed to the manufacturing sector, followed by UZS 1.7 trillion to the services sector and UZS 820.4 billion to the transport sector. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva discusses trade and security cooperation with U.S. envoy Saida Mirziyoyeva, Chief of the Presidential Administration, held talks with a high-level U.S. delegation led by Sergio Gor, the U.S. President s Special Envoy for South and Central Asia, and Deputy Secretary of State Christopher Landau. The meeting focused on expanding trade opportunities and enhancing collaboration in public safety. Kun official channel
Green loss, grey skies the price of Tashkent s rapid growth Air pollution in Tashkent exceeds World Health Organization WHO standards sixfold. Green areas have shrunk from 34 to 13 in six years. About 26 of the city s power grid is in an emergency state. Over the past eight years, the number of cars has nearly doubled, while the total road length has decreased. Around 60 of the water supply network is outdated. Of the 14.8 million tons of waste generated in 2024, only 6 was recycled. Can these problems be solved? Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to keep main tax rates unchanged in 2026 In 2026, Uzbekistan aims to maintain an economic growth rate of 6.6 percent, increase GDP to over 150 billion, channel at least UZS 400 trillion into the economy from all sources, and keep inflation below 7 percent. Kun official channel
Tashkent raises tariffs for hot water and heating services Heating service tariffs for the population have been increased by 15 percent. Kun official channel
Ex-Mirzaabad district chief sentenced for abuse of power and forgery According to court documents reviewed by Kun, former Mirzaabad district governor Jonibek Yariev has been convicted of abuse of power. The court found that Yariev, who served as governor between 2020 and 2023, exceeded his official authority by unlawfully distributing houses constructed for families displaced by the Sardoba reservoir flooding. His actions caused significant damage to state and public interests. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev holds talks with US delegation led by Sergio Gor The parties discussed further strengthening Uzbekistan US strategic partnership relations within the framework of the agreements reached at the high-level meeting held in New York on 23 September this year. Kun official channel
Tashkent airport opens renovated arrivals hall with expanded facilities Another stage of reconstruction work has been completed at Tashkent International Airport, including the renovation of the arrivals hall, the opening of an open terrace, and the expansion of the VIP lounge in the departure terminal. In the coming days, several new food and beverage outlets are set to open in the area, including caf s, non-alcoholic beverage bars, ice cream and flower shops. Kun official channel
Rustam Kasimjanov to lead Uzbekistan s national chess team International Grandmaster and 2004 FIDE World Champion Rustam Kasimjanov has been appointed head coach of Uzbekistan s national chess team. Kun official channel
President of Serbia arrives in Uzbekistan on official visit At the invitation of President Shavkat Mirziyoyev, President of Serbia Aleksandar Vu i arrived in Tashkent on 28 October for an official visit. The high-ranking guest was welcomed at Tashkent International Airport by Prime Minister Abdulla Aripov and other senior officials. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and the US reaffirm commitment to deepening strategic partnership Minister of Foreign Affairs Bakhtiyor Saidov held talks with U.S. Special Envoy for South and Central Asian Affairs Sergio Gor and First Deputy Secretary of State Christopher Landau. Kun official channel
Abdukodir Khusanov named among Asia s top-valued footballers At present, the 21-year-old s market value stands at 35 million. After the October update, Bayern Munich defender Kim Min-jae s value dropped from 40 million to 32 million. Similarly, Brighton winger Kaoru Mitoma s value decreased from 40 million to 35 million. As a result, Abdukodir Khusanov now joins Mitoma as one of Asia s highest-valued players. Kun official channel
Average monthly salary in Uzbekistan up 19 percent to over UZS 6 million In January September 2025, the average nominal monthly salary including taxes and other payments in Uzbekistan amounted to UZS 6.17 million, marking a 19.2 percent increase compared to the same period last year, according to the National Statistics Committee. Kun official channel
Traffic violations caught on camera to count toward driver penalty points Starting from 1 April 2026, Uzbekistan will begin assigning penalty points for traffic violations detected by automated photo and video recording systems. Kun official channel
South Korea raids target illegal foreign workers ahead of APEC 2025 summit, 26 Uzbek citizens fined South Korean authorities have fined 26 Uzbek nationals for immigration and labor violations during ongoing joint raids targeting undocumented workers. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to make theory classes optional for A and B driver s licenses starting Feb 2026 A new government decree will make theoretical lessons optional for Category A motorcycles and B light vehicles driver s licenses starting 1 February 2026, allowing candidates to study traffic rules independently. Kun official channel
President signs decree expanding powers of local governors President Shavkat Mirziyoyev has ordered an experimental reform of the local governance system, under which, starting in 2026, the regional units of nine ministries and agencies will be integrated into the local government offices of 45 districts and cities. Regional governors will gain the authority to appoint heads of these units and set development priorities. Kun official channel
Gov t introduces A1 license for mopeds and scooters from 2026 From 1 January 2026, Uzbekistan will introduce a new A1 minor category driver s license for operating mopeds, scooters, and other small motorcycles. According to the government decree, attending a driving school will not be required to obtain this license. Holders of existing A, B, C, and D category licenses will automatically be authorized to operate vehicles in the A1 category. Kun official channel
Ministry of Ecology proposes measures to cut air pollution in Tashkent The Ministry of Ecology has drafted a resolution and submitted it to the government. Under the proposal, industrial enterprises and greenhouses in Tashkent and its surrounding areas would be required to install dust and gas filtration systems, upgrade boilers, and phase out coal use. The plan also envisions financial incentives for enterprises. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to launch national AI portal and attract 1 billion in investments President Shavkat Mirziyoyev has instructed to attract 1 billion in investments over the next five years to develop artificial intelligence AI infrastructure. Kun official channel
Migration Agency revokes licenses of two private employment firms There are currently 37 licensed employment companies operating in Uzbekistan, more than two-thirds of which are based in Tashkent. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s GDP grows by 7.6 percent in nine months According to preliminary data from the National Statistics Committee, Uzbekistan s gross domestic product GDP amounted to UZS 1,303,702.1 trillion at current prices in January September 2025, marking a 7.6 percent increase compared to the same period in 2024. Kun official channel
Uzhydromet warns of strong winds and dust storms in Karakalpakstan and Navoi According to the Center for Hydrometeorological Service of Uzbekistan Uzhydromet , on 27 October, wind speeds in some areas of the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Navoi region may increase to 13 18 meters per second, accompanied by dust storms in certain locations. Residents are urged to take precautionary measures. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to become regional hub for satellite internet in Central Asia The Minister of Digital Technologies, Sherzod Shermatov, announced that the country has signed an agreement with the European provider SES to establish a satellite internet hub in Uzbekistan. According to him, the system will provide high-speed internet not only to remote areas across the country but also to neighboring states. Kun official channel
SSS prevents large-scale currency smuggling at border with Tajikistan The State Security Service SSS , in collaboration with customs authorities, has thwarted two separate attempts to illegally export foreign currency valued at over UZS 5.2 billion to Tajikistan at the Farhad customs post in Bekabad. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev to attend Central Asia US summit in Washington next week On November 6, Washington will host the Central Asia US summit. A source in the Presidential Administration of Uzbekistan confirmed to Kun that President Shavkat Mirziyoyev will also participate in the event. Kun official channel
SSS dismantles drug trafficking network in three regions, seizes over kg of narcotics The State Security Service SSS , in cooperation with other law enforcement agencies, carried out a series of special operations that disrupted illegal drug trafficking activities in several regions of Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Number of marriages in Uzbekistan continues gradual decline According to data from the National Statistics Committee, 177,000 marriages were registered by civil registry offices across the country between January and September 2025. Of these, 91,200 were recorded in urban areas and 85,800 in rural areas. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and UN launch new cooperation framework for 2026 2030 The document aims to promote sustainable development, reduce inequality, and ensure equal opportunities for all citizens. Over the next five years, the program will define the priorities of 25 UN agencies, funds, and programs that support Uzbekistan in achieving its national development goals. Kun official channel
Turkish KYM to invest 25 million in cable manufacturing plant in Kuvasay The plant will initially produce low-voltage cables and later expand to medium-voltage cable manufacturing. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan eases criminal liability for minors under new legal amendments According to the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, individuals who have served their sentences for crimes committed before reaching the age of 18 will no longer be considered as having a criminal record. Kun official channel
Central Bank sees Islamic finance as key to formalizing shadow economy Majority of Uzbeks prefer Islamic finance over traditional banking, according to a survey. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Germany strengthen dialogue on political and economic partnership Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan Bobur Usmanov met with Stephan Mayer, a member of the German Parliament. Kun official channel
Abdulaziz Kamilov Restored ties with Europe mark a new stage in foreign policy The Enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed with the European Union was many years in the making. According to Abdulaziz Kamilov, Advisor to the President on Foreign Policy, a similar agreement signed in Florence in 1996 did not yield the expected results. This new deal, he said, reflects the diversification of Uzbekistan s foreign policy and lays the groundwork for long-term security. Kun official channel
U.S. Special Envoy Sergio Gor to visit Uzbekistan U.S. Special Envoy for South and Central Asia Sergio Gor and Deputy Secretary of State Christopher Landau will visit Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan from October 26 to October 30. The U.S. delegation will discuss a wide range of economic and security issues. Kun official channel
Court bars media from hearing in police abuse case, citing state secret On 24 October, another hearing was held in the case against officials of the Furqat District Department of Internal Affairs DIA . At the session, officers who took part in the so-called special operation during which a female victim was reportedly stripped testified before the court. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev and King Philippe discuss prospects for Uzbek Belgian cooperation As part of his official visit to Brussels, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev met with King Philippe of the Belgians at the Laeken Palace. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan completes WTO accession talks with the European Union The agreement sets out Uzbekistan s commitments on tariffs for goods and its concessions in the services sector, which will be formalized in the WTO accession protocol. Kun official channel
State to subsidize part of private preschool fees for low-income families The list of children entitled to such compensation will be generated automatically through the information system, and funds will be transferred directly to private preschool institutions. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and EU agree on over 10 billion worth of new joint projects The parties agreed to enhance cooperation in energy, chemicals, critical minerals, logistics, textiles, and pharmaceuticals Kun official channel
Central Bank chief dismisses rumors of Uzbekistan buying gold from Russia The Chairman of the Central Bank of Uzbekistan, Timur Ishmetov, denied reports claiming that Uzbekistan was purchasing gold from Russia, calling them entirely false. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and EU sign Enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement The agreement was inked at the EU Council headquarters during the Uzbekistan Europe Summit. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev meets European business and banking leaders in Belgium to discuss partnership As part of his official visit to Belgium, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev held a roundtable discussion with leaders of Europe s leading companies and banks. Kun official channel
Fixed capital investments in Uzbekistan up 15.2 year-on-year In Uzbekistan, investments in fixed capital reached UZS 443.6 trillion between January and September 2025 up by 15.2 compared to the same period last year. The growth rate was three times higher than in the first half of the year, but still significantly lower than in 2024, when investments surged by nearly 39 . Kun official channel
Central Bank keeps key rate unchanged at 14 The regulator explained that although annual inflation has slowed, price-increasing risks linked to external supply factors persist amid strong aggregate demand. Moreover, inflation in the services sector remains high. Taking these factors into account, the Central Bank kept the rate unchanged. Kun official channel
How to get a refund for IELTS if you scored 7.0 or above? In 2024, the number of students achieving high scores on the IELTS exam increased 13,400 candidates scored between 7 and 8, while more than 300 achieved 8.5 or over. More and more young people are demonstrating English proficiency at C1 and C2 levels, but not everyone knows that these results make them eligible for a refund of the exam fees. Kun official channel
Cabinet adopts resolution mandating state language use in building names and signage According to a government resolution, starting from 1 January 2026, all residential complexes built in Uzbekistan must have names in the state language. In addition, building passports, signboards, and all inscriptions on temporary walls and fences around construction sites must also be written in Uzbek. Kun official channel
UAE company expresses interest in hiring Uzbek taxi drivers It has been reported that at the initial stage, there is an opportunity to employ around 200 citizens of Uzbekistan as taxi drivers. If their work performance proves satisfactory, an additional 500 Uzbek drivers may be recruited. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev begins official trip to Belgium At Brussels International Airport, he was welcomed by the European Union Special Representative for Central Asia, Eduards Stiprais, and other officials. Kun official channel
Tashkent authorities launch raids against illegal car advertising A video released by the city administration shows several car owners removing Yandex Go stickers from their vehicles at the instruction of traffic officers and other monitoring participants. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan grants five-year tax incentives to satellite communication operators Starting in 2026, services provided by satellite communication operators in Uzbekistan will be exempt from value-added tax VAT , while their infrastructure will not be subject to land and property taxes. In addition, the operators themselves will be exempt from profit tax for a period of five years. Kun official channel
Green energy share in Uzbekistan s total power generation hits 23 Since the beginning of 2025, Uzbekistan s solar and wind power plants have generated 9 billion kWh of electricity. Including hydropower plants, the total amount of green energy produced has reached 14.5 billion kWh, meaning that renewable energy now accounts for 23 percent of the country s total power generation. Kun official channel
US lawmakers urge Trump to convene leaders summit with Central Asian countries Members of the US Congress have sent a letter to President Donald Trump recommending the organization of a summit in the Central Asia US C5 1 format. The letter highlights that the forum presents a unique opportunity to strengthen cooperation with Central Asia and advance US strategic interests in the region. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan tightens rules to prevent fake discounts in retail trade Retailers will now be required to indicate the lowest price of a product within 30 days before a sale begins. Kun official channel
Religious scholar Mubasshir Ahmad decides not to appeal court ruling lawyer I believe Mubasshir Ahmad has surrendered to fate and no longer wishes to engage in further disputes, said his lawyer in a comment to Kun. On 8 October, Judge Bobur Rahimov found the scholar guilty on all three charges brought by the investigative authorities and sentenced him to 2.5 years in prison. Kun official channel
EV sales in Uzbekistan hit monthly record Monthly electric vehicle EV sales hit a new record 7,798 units, up 21.6 from August and 83.5 higher than a year earlier. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan simplifies business visa process for 15 countries Uzbekistan has officially introduced a visa-free regime for citizens of six new countries and extended the visa-free stay period for Chinese nationals. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan considers engaging Italy s Ansaldo Energia in its first nuclear project The company may act as a technical consultant, overseeing the implementation of the plant s construction. Kun official channel
Remittances to Uzbekistan up 24 year-on-year Between January and September, cross-border transfers to the country totaled 13.9 billion 24 or 2.7 billion higher than in the same period of 2024. Compared to 2023, the growth was even more significant up 66 or 5.5 billion. Kun official channel
Gov t launches unified online portal for Hajj and Umrah registration According to the Committee on Religious Affairs, citizens can now apply to join the queue for Hajj and Umrah pilgrimages online. Kun official channel
National Geographic names Khiva among top travel destinations for 2026 In its recommendations, the magazine notes that while Samarkand and Bukhara are at the peak of their popularity, Khiva offers a more authentic and tranquil journey into the past. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan forecasts 7 GDP growth and stable inflation in 2025 Despite global challenges, Uzbekistan continues to demonstrate confident economic growth, Deputy Prime Minister Jamshid Kuchkarov said. According to him, by the end of 2025 the country s GDP is expected to grow by 7 , while GDP per capita will exceed 3,500. Kun official channel
Don t fly Wizness class Canadian musician releases song about Wizz Air incident involving Uzbek student Canadian musician Dave Carroll has released a new song dedicated to Suhrob Ubaydullaev, an Uzbek student who was denied boarding by Wizz Air in 2023. The song, titled Don t fly Wizness class, is accompanied by a music video. Carroll s previous song once forced major airlines to rethink their approach to customer service. Earlier, Suhrob told Kun how the incident had left him stranded abroad. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to deepen trade and investment ties with the European Union President Shavkat Mirziyoyev will pay an official visit to Brussels on October 23 24. During the visit, Uzbekistan and the European Union are expected to sign a historic Enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement EPCA . Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s currency market sees higher supply amid rising demand In the first nine months of 2025, demand for foreign currency in Uzbekistan rose to 42.7 billion, a 23.5 increase compared with the same period last year. At the same time, supply from companies and individuals reached 34.4 billion, excluding interventions by the Central Bank. Exports, external loans, and remittances were the main sources of foreign currency. Overall, the population sold 6.7 billion more to banks than it purchased. Kun official channel
ADB approves 100 million loan to boost STEM education in Uzbekistan The Asian Development Bank ADB has approved a 100 million concessional loan to support Uzbekistan in enhancing the quality of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics STEM education in secondary schools. Kun official channel
Housing sales in Uzbekistan decline 6.4 in nine months, secondary market prices rise Despite a rise in transactions in September, overall housing sales in Uzbekistan declined by 6.4 in the first nine months of 2025 compared with the same period in 2024. In Tashkent, secondary housing prices fell, while new developments and rental rates increased. Kun official channel
Maria Timofeeva switches nationality to represent Uzbekistan The 21-year-old athlete has changed her sporting nationality and become Uzbekistan s new No. 1 player. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to prioritize local alternatives in state procurement of electrical products Starting in 2026, Uzbekistan will require verification of local equivalents when conducting state procurement of electrical products. Authorities will also review the trade of copper products to consider adjustments to customs duties. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan national team to compete in Dubai mini-tournament during November FIFA days The Uzbekistan national football team will take part in an international friendly mini-tournament in Dubai during the November FIFA days, the Uzbekistan Football Association UFA reported. Kun official channel
Tashkent to host FIA General Assembly with participants from 149 countries Ambassador of Uzbekistan to the UK, Ravshan Usmanov, met with Jonathan Refoy, Chief Communications Officer at the F d ration Internationale de l Automobile FIA . Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev sets goal for Uzbekistan to join top 50 AI nations by 2030 The president emphasized the importance of training specialists in AI. Starting from the 2026 2027 academic year, AI-related topics will be added to the school informatics curriculum, which will be developed jointly with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT . Kun official channel
South Korea s Kyeryong to build 150 million medical center in Tashkent The Export Import Bank of Korea will provide a 124 million loan. The 300-bed hospital will be able to perform up to 8,500 surgeries annually. Kun official channel
Gold prices in Uzbekistan drop after global market downturn The price of a 5-gram gold bar dropped to UZS 8.32 million, losing UZS 367,000 in a single day. Kun official channel
Scientists discover previously unknown genetic mutations among Uzbeks Scientists say the finding may be linked to the high rate of consanguineous marriages in certain regions, where such unions account for nearly a quarter of all marriages. Kun official channel
Nasaf suffers third straight defeat in AFC Champions League Uzbekistan s reigning champion Nasaf continues its poor run in the AFC Champions League Elite tournament. Kun official channel
Mobile operators start blocking fake-number calls in Uzbekistan A new anti-spoofing system designed to prevent fraud by blocking phone calls made from fake numbers has been introduced in Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Criminal case opened against detention center officers following escape of convicted pedophile A criminal case has been initiated against officers of the Internal Affairs Ministry s Department for the Execution of Sentences at the Central Detention Center in connection with the escape of a convicted pedophile from a settlement colony. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s foreign trade turnover reaches 59.8 billion in nine months The National Statistics Committee has published a list of countries accounting for the largest share of Uzbekistan s foreign trade turnover. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to develop Uzbek language corpus to enhance AI capabilities The Ministry of Digital Technologies has been tasked with developing an Uzbek language corpus to enable artificial intelligence AI programs to use the language effectively and reflect the nation s culture. Kun official channel
The Louvre crown jewels theft What really happened in Paris? On October 19, Paris witnessed one of the most daring museum robberies in recent history. Four masked men carried out a meticulously planned heist at the Louvre Museum, stealing eight royal jewels from the Galerie d Apollon in less than four minutes. Kun official channel
All district and city governors to have advisers on AI and digitalization Uzbekistan will introduce the position of adviser to district and city governors on artificial intelligence AI and digitalization. All ministries and local administrations will establish dedicated divisions focused on AI development. Kun official channel
Government to integrate over 50 agency databases into a national system In Uzbekistan, interagency databases will be integrated into the unified data center of the e-government system. The migration of data is planned for 2025 2026. Once the process is completed, government bodies will no longer be allowed to store data on their own servers. Kun official channel
Tax Inspectorate demands UzPost pay 2.6 million in VAT Uzbekistan s national postal operator UzPost has been ordered to pay value-added tax VAT amounting to UZS 31.45 billion 2.6 million at the Central Bank rate , including a penalty. The tax authorities claim the company failed to pay VAT on transit services provided to foreign companies between 2021 and 2023. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to introduce satellite internet operators in remote areas from 2026 From 2026, satellite internet operators will begin operating in remote areas of Uzbekistan, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev announced. Companies investing over 100 million in artificial intelligence infrastructure will receive incentives, including electricity prices set at 5 cents per kilowatt-hour in Karakalpakstan currently 8.3 cents for legal entities . Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev launches construction of 150 million data center in Tashkent A 12 MW data center will be built within IT Park in partnership with Saudi company Data Volt. In the future, an additional 3 billion is planned to expand the total capacity of the center to 500 MW. Kun official channel
UK embassy marks Uzbek Language Day with tongue twisters The UK Embassy in Uzbekistan celebrated Uzbek Language Day by challenging its diplomats with tricky tongue twisters. The diplomats, including Ambassador Timothy Smart, attempted some of the most difficult phrases in Uzbek, sharing a fun and engaging tribute to the country s official language. Kun official channel
Central Bank names products with the highest annual price growth According to the Central Bank of Uzbekistan, the steepest annual price increases among food products were recorded for carrots 57.5 percent , lemons 52.5 percent , and cottonseed oil 35.9 percent . Among non-food items, the largest price hikes were seen for wedding rings 33.4 percent , methane 30.6 percent , and newspapers 15.3 percent . In the services sector, the cost of driving courses rose sharply by 73.3 percent. Kun official channel
Samarkand to restrict road access for 15 days during UNESCO conference The roads leading to Samarkand will be temporarily closed from October 30 to November 14. Kun official channel
Convicted pedophile escapes and commits new assault on child in Tashkent region It is reported that the individual was detained in accordance with procedural norms by law enforcement agencies on the same day, and a custodial measure was applied against him. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan strengthen military cooperation On October 20, Uzbekistan s Minister of Defense, Lieutenant General Shukhrat Khalmukhamedov, held a bilateral meeting with Azerbaijan s Minister of Defense, Colonel General Zakir Hasanov, in the city of Samarkand. Kun official channel
Center for Islamic Civilization in Tashkent nears completion The construction of the Center for Islamic Civilization one of Uzbekistan s largest cultural and educational projects is nearing completion. On October 20, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev toured the complex and examined the progress of interior finishing and museum exhibition setup. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan among top gas suppliers to China Uzbekistan ranked fifth among natural gas suppliers to China during the first nine months of 2025. Between January and September 2025, Uzbekistan exported natural gas worth approximately 630 million to China via pipelines. Kun official channel
Economists warn of higher cement prices after new sales quota decision The requirement for companies to sell at least 50 percent of their cement output through the commodity exchange has been lowered to 25 percent. Experts warn that this could drive prices higher during peak demand seasons. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s top three companies with the highest employee tax debts named As of 15 October 2025, 747,940 employees from 173,391 organizations owe unpaid taxes totaling UZS 831.5 billion across 882,939 tax objects. Kun official channel
Over half a billion UZS in delayed wages recovered for Samarkand healthcare staff In Bulungur district of Samarkand region, more than 80 medical workers were found not to have received their guaranteed payments, the Ministry of Justice reported. Kun official channel
Jizzakh Pedagogical University accused of illegal gas use worth over UZS 3.5 billion Cases of illegal use of natural gas and electricity worth over UZS 5.5 billion have been detected in two districts of Jizzakh region, the Ministry of Energy reported. Kun official channel
Anti-Corruption Agency demands transparency in UzPost privatization The Anti-Corruption Agency has submitted a formal proposal to the State Assets Management Agency demanding openness and transparency in the privatization of the state s stake in UzPost JSC. Kun official channel
Saudi Arabia s Pemco to build 200 MW gas-piston power plant in Samarkand Saudi Arabian company Pemco will begin work by the end of the year on a new 200 MW gas-piston power plant in Samarkand region, the Minister of Energy Jurabek Mirzamakhmudov said following President Shavkat Mirziyoyev s meeting with leading Saudi business representatives. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and UK deepen economic and financial ties A delegation from Uzbekistan, led by Minister of Investments, Industry, and Trade Laziz Kudratov, visited London to advance strategic cooperation with leading UK financial institutions. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan aims to become regional aviation hub connecting East and West President Shavkat Mirziyoyev announced plans to expand Uzbekistan s civil aviation fleet alongside the construction of a new Tashkent airport, increasing the number of aircraft from 105 to 180. According to him, the new 1,310-hectare complex will form part of New Tashkent and will be connected to the capital by shuttle buses and a metro line. Kun official channel
Fergana entrepreneurs establish 6 million export center in South Korea A new 6 million trade and warehouse complex for goods from Uzbekistan s Fergana region has opened in the South Korean city of Paran. The facility was established by Koreta, an importer of textiles and food products. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan urges its truck drivers in Russia to observe migration regulations The Migration Agency has urged Uzbek citizens engaged in cargo transportation in Russia to strictly comply with the host country s migration regulations. Kun official channel
Supreme Court reports rise in divorce cases and civil litigation in Uzbekistan In the first nine months of 2025, courts in Uzbekistan received more than 52,000 applications for divorce, of which over 27,000 marriages were officially dissolved. Kun official channel
Two Uzbek wrestlers win gold at Asian Youth Games Uzbek athletes have made a strong start at the Bahrain 2025 III Asian Youth Games. Kun official channel
CNN Travel names Uzbek bread among the world s best 50 The publication notes that Uzbek bread varies by region, ranging from Tashkent s chewy versions to Samarkand loaves showered in black nigella seeds. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan expresses interest in hosting a Formula 1 Grand Prix During the Grand Prix at the Marina Bay Circuit, representatives of Uzbekistan actively discussed the possibility of hosting a Formula 1 race in the country. Kun official channel
Criminal investigation launched into Tuzel Park project linked to Imarat Development A criminal case has been opened against officials of Perfect-Mansions LLC, the company building the Tuzel Park residential complex in the Uchchinor neighborhood of Tashkent s Yashnabad district. The project is publicly associated with Marat Khamdamov, known for his real estate developments under the Imarat Development brand. Kun official channel
Inflation slows to 8 in Uzbekistan as food prices drop sharply Uzbekistan s inflation slowed to 8 in September, the lowest since 2022, driven by sharp declines in food prices, with 86 of food items rising less than 10 . Non-food prices also moderated, while services saw steeper increases. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan may raise import duties on transformers, cables, and semiconductors Authorities are also considering increasing customs duties on the export of semi-finished copper wire products and other copper goods. Kun official channel
Jizzakh resident sentenced to three years for joining Russian military in Ukraine war A former Uzbek serviceman who twice signed contracts to fight for Russia during its war against Ukraine has been sentenced to three years and one month in prison. During his service, he received three medals, Russian citizenship, and used his earnings to purchase an apartment in Kaluga region. Kun official channel
Trade unions in Uzbekistan recover UZS 267 billion in favor of employees On October 17, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev delivered a speech at a meeting with trade unions and called for accelerating the adoption of the law on state social insurance. Kun official channel
Uzbek national Kamila Mahmudova to join Raiffeisen Bank International s management board as CFO Kamila Mahmudova has been appointed chief financial officer CFO of Raiffeisen Bank International RBI , one of Europe s largest financial groups. Since 2021, she has served as CFO of the bank s Czech branch. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s car market sees Chevrolet slump as electric vehicles gain traction In the first nine months of 2025, sales of 7 out of 10 models offered by UzAuto Motors declined. During the reporting period, the best-selling vehicle not belonging to the Chevrolet brand was the Kia Sonet. Meanwhile, BYD increased its overall market share from 3.8 to 5.7 . Kun official channel
MP calls for life sentence for pedophiles in Uzbekistan According to lawmaker Dilnoza Azizova, allowing pedophiles to roam free after having their prison terms reduced for good behavior reflects the state s attitude toward children. Kun official channel
Central Bank penalizes eight banks for compliance and consumer protection violations In September 2025, the Central Bank's Banking Supervision Committee convened nine meetings to address 43 critical issues related to banking oversight, compliance, and consumer protection. Kun official channel
Negligence by gas workers led to blast that killed seven family members in Samarkand An explosion in Samarkand that claimed the lives of seven members of one family was caused by a gas leak from an illegally installed pipeline laid under a road by hired workers. The victims had repeatedly complained to the gas company about the smell of gas, but its employees failed to take any action. Kun official channel
Finnish President Alexander Stubb to visit Uzbekistan President of Finland Alexander Stubb will pay an official visit to Uzbekistan on 30 31 October. Kun official channel
Assistants of former Uzbekistan head coach Katanec demand 350,000 from UFA The Uzbekistan Football Association UFA has commented on reports that former assistants of ex-national team head coach Sre ko Katanec are demanding compensation. Kun official channel
Migration Agency refutes media reports on Uzbeks injured in Amur region bus crash The Migration Agency has refuted reports claiming that Uzbek citizens were on board a bus belonging to the Turkish construction company Yamata, which was involved in a traffic accident in Russia s Amur region. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev to visit Brussels to sign partnership agreement with the European Union The agreement will be inked on 24 October and will reaffirm both sides commitment to continuing reforms, modernizing the economy, and strengthening global cooperation. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan expands space monitoring to detect illegal construction and mining Uzbekistan is intensifying space monitoring to combat illegal construction and mining, with President Mirziyoyev ordering Uzbekcosmos to survey all district centers for vacant land. Over 33,000 illegal structures were detected this year, many on agricultural land, prompting enhanced satellite data use to curb economic crimes and optimize land use. Kun official channel
Centrum Air to launch direct flights between Tashkent and Ulan-Ude The flights will operate once a week, every Thursday, using Airbus A320 aircraft. Kun official channel
Timur Kapadze in talks to take over Indonesia national team Former Uzbekistan national team coach Timur Kapadze is being considered as one of the main candidates to lead the Indonesian national football team. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan joins new transit corridor connecting China with the Caspian region China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan have launched a new cargo transportation route. Kun official channel
Kazakhstan's cement exports to Uzbekistan plummet after alleged secret decree Cement exports from Kazakhstan to Uzbekistan have dropped sharply, reportedly due to a secret decree issued by the Uzbek government. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to increase Russian gas imports Uzbekistan will increase imports of Russian natural gas by more than 2 billion cubic meters in 2025, according to the press service of the Russian government. Officials in Moscow highlighted the significant prospects for further expanding gas supplies, including liquefied natural gas LNG . Kun official channel
Indian-backed company to invest 650 million in copper production in Surkhandarya The India-backed company Glokal Yevroaziya plans to mine and process 10,000 tons of copper annually in Uzbekistan s Surkhandarya region, the regional administration reported. Kun official channel
One dead, 14 injured after bus with Uzbek migrants crashes in Russia A bus transporting workers including citizens of Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Turkey overturned following a collision with a car in Russia s Amur region. Kun official channel
The Guardian names Sadriddin Khasanov among the world s top young talents British newspaper The Guardian has included Tashkent-based Bunyodkor forward Sadriddin Khasanov in its list of the world s best young football talents. The ranking features 60 players born in 2008 who are considered the most promising prospects in world football. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s passport ranking drops in global index The Henley Passport Index, which ranks the world s most powerful passports, has been updated. As of October, Uzbekistan has fallen to 82nd place. In September, the country was ranked 72nd. Kun official channel
Incheon to invest 132 million in modernization of Urgench airport South Korea s Incheon International Airport Corporation will invest 132 million in the construction and management of passenger and cargo terminals at Urgench International Airport. Kun official channel
Oxford launches Uzbek Studies program, adding Uzbek and Chagatai languages to its curriculum Head of the Presidential Administration of Uzbekistan Saida Mirziyoyeva attended the official opening ceremony of the Uzbek Studies program at the University of Oxford. The university has become the first and only institution in the United Kingdom to include Uzbek and Old Uzbek Chagatai languages in the curriculum of its Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies. Kun official channel
ESPN weighs Uzbekistan s chances at the 2026 World Cup Spanish sports outlet ESPN has assessed the performance potential of the strongest national teams that have already qualified for, or are most likely to take part in, the 2026 FIFA World Cup. The ranking includes 87 national teams some of which have already secured their place at the tournament, while others are still competing in the qualification rounds. Kun official channel
Cargo delays at Kazakh Russian border slow Uzbekistan s export activity Between July and September, the number of export shipment requests increased by 9 compared to 2024. However, demand for transport services fell by more than one-third from the previous quarter, while average freight rates dropped by 7 year-on-year. Kun official channel
World Bank approves 800 million concessional loan package to support Uzbekistan s reforms The World Bank s Board of Executive Directors has approved an 800 million financial package in highly concessional loans to support Uzbekistan s structural reforms. These reforms aim to reduce poverty, create jobs, foster private sector growth, and increase competition across key economic sectors. According to the World Bank s Uzbekistan office, the operation will also help the country enhance social protection and expand access to essential services for vulnerable populations. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan plans to boost electrical equipment exports to 3 billion by 2026 Uzbekistan aims to export electrical equipment to 80 countries by the end of next year. Kun official channel
IMF raises Uzbekistan s growth forecast but warns of higher inflation In 2025, Uzbekistan s economic growth is expected to reach 6.8 , while inflation is projected to exceed the Central Bank s forecast and stand at 9.1 . Kun official channel
South Korea resumes seasonal work program for Uzbek citizens The program for issuing E-8 visas was previously suspended after some participants failed to return home upon completion of their contracts. Kun official channel
Samarkand preparing to host UNESCO General Conference for the first time Samarkand is set to host the 43rd session of the UNESCO General Conference later this month, marking the first time in 40 years that the event will take place outside Paris. Kun official channel
AirAsia launches flights between Kuala Lumpur and Tashkent Flights between the two cities will be operated three times a week on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva discusses reforms and WTO accession with UK Treasury official During her visit to the United Kingdom, Saida Mirziyoyeva, Head of the Presidential Administration of Uzbekistan, held productive discussions with UK officials, focusing on Uzbekistan s ongoing reforms and its pursuit of World Trade Organization WTO membership. Kun official channel
Military units from Central Asia and Azerbaijan launch joint drills in Uzbekistan A large-scale military exercise involving the armed forces of Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Azerbaijan has commenced at the Kattakurgan training ground of the Central Military District. Kun official channel
Justice Ministry acts to cancel unlawful GPP fee for pharmacies Following an investigation published by Kun, the Ministry of Justice declared the order introducing a mandatory payment for the GPP certificate illegal and submitted a proposal to the Pharmaceutical Industry Development Agency to cancel and withdraw the document from enforcement. Although the order affects the rights and interests of entrepreneurs, it was not registered with the Ministry of Justice. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan launches construction of new international airport in Tashkent region President Shavkat Mirziyoyev reviewed the project for a new international airport in Tashkent region and attended the ceremony marking the start of its construction. Kun official channel
CIS security and intelligence chiefs to meet in Samarkand The 57th meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of Security Agencies and Special Services, as well as the 21st meeting of the Heads of Security and Intelligence Services of CIS member states, will take place in Samarkand. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s tourism service exports exceed 3.6 billion over nine months Uzbekistan s inbound tourism has reached historic levels, with the country receiving more than one million foreign visitors each month since April 2025, according to the Tourism Committee. Kun official channel
Qazaq Air to launch direct flights from Astana to Samarkand The low-cost airline will operate flights twice a week on Fridays and Sundays. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan Saudi Arabia cooperation intensifies with new large-scale projects On 15 October, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev received Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Investment of Saudi Arabia, who led a delegation of business leaders from the Kingdom to Tashkent. Kun official channel
Social media misinterprets Erdo an s decree on Turkish-origin foreigners President Recep Tayyip Erdo an has signed a decision granting significant freedoms to foreign nationals of Turkish ethnicity living abroad. However, social media users have misinterpreted the measure as applying to all Turkic peoples. As Kun clarified, this document does not grant citizens of other Turkic nations the right to live and work freely in Turkey. Kun official channel
Slovakia may shorten visa review time for citizens of Uzbekistan The Slovak side is ready to consider reducing the visa application processing time from three months to one. Kun official channel
Tax revenues in Uzbekistan surge as shadow economy shrinks Tax revenues in Uzbekistan s regions have increased by more than a quarter since the beginning of the year due to measures aimed at formalizing the shadow economy. Kun official channel
Two men sentenced to prison for attempting to incite public disorder in Chinaz They called on people to block the road instead of going to a gas station. Later, they forced a driver waiting in line at the methane refueling station to block the Tashkent Termiz highway with a HOWO truck. The court ruling states that the defendants intended to provoke mass disorder through these actions. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan youth teams defeat Kazakhstan and draw with Turkey The Uzbekistan U-20 national team, led by Ravshan Haydarov, defeated Kazakhstan U-21 in both friendly matches, while the U-17 squad coached by Islombek Ismoilov played two draws against Turkey. Kun official channel
Italy may recruit 3,500 mid-level medical workers from Uzbekistan following pilot labor program The first group of 10 specialists from Tashkent and Samarkand has departed as part of the pilot program. They will work in Italian clinics for three months while studying the Italian language and adapting to the local healthcare system during their placement. Kun official channel
Asian Development Bank approves 500 million loan to support Uzbekistan s economic reforms The Asian Development Bank ADB has approved a 500 million policy-based loan to support the Government of Uzbekistan in enhancing public sector efficiency, strengthening economic governance, and accelerating integration into the global economy. Kun official channel
Afghanistan calls on Uzbekistan to simplify visa and customs procedures Afghan traders are seeking easier access to Uzbek business visas. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan sees decline in outbound students, rising interest in East Asia According to the National Statistics Committee, a total of 20,700 citizens of Uzbekistan went abroad for studies between January and August 2025. Kun official channel
Cabinet expands list of professions eligible for early retirement Not only miners and pilots but also ballet dancers, animal trainers, psychiatric hospital staff, and mothers of children with disabilities will now be able to retire early. Kun official channel
Lawmakers approve bill introducing criminal liability for illegal sale of prescription medicines The Legislative Chamber of the Oliy Majlis has adopted, in the first and second readings, a bill aimed at tightening penalties for the illegal circulation of prescription drugs. Kun official channel
Mirziyoyev and Putin discuss strengthening Uzbek Russian partnership The Presidents of Uzbekistan and Russia discussed strengthening bilateral relations, trade, economic and investment cooperation, as well as humanitarian ties. Kun official channel
Montenegro suspends visa-free regime for citizens of Uzbekistan The decision was reportedly made as part of efforts to align Montenegro s national visa policy with the requirements of the European Union. Kun official channel
Government to subsidize after-school activities for students from low-income families Up to 80 percent of the expenses for extracurricular activities of students from low-income families attending public schools will be covered by the state budget. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Austria discuss further steps on migration and mobility cooperation Vienna hosted the first round of consultations between the consular services of the Uzbek and Austrian Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Kun official channel
Ministry warns against forced labor amid cotton harvest monitoring More than 70 cases of labor law violations have been identified during the ongoing cotton harvest. The Ministry of Employment and Poverty Reduction reiterated that all forms of forced labor are strictly prohibited in Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan introduces automatic system to stop sales of expired products Starting from 1 March 2026, the sale of expired goods with digital marking such as medicines, soft drinks, and other products will be automatically blocked at the point of sale. This means that once the product is scanned at the store or pharmacy cash register, the system will detect the expired item and prevent a receipt from being issued. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva discusses partnership expansion with EBRD President Odile Renaud-Basso During the meeting, Mirziyoyeva noted that the partnership between Uzbekistan and the EBRD has reached a new stage of development. Kun official channel
Over 7,500 entities in Uzbekistan identified for informal or dubious activity, Tax Committee issues warning The State Tax Committee of Uzbekistan has urged taxpayers to exercise particular caution when selecting business partners. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to digitize water management through new State Water Cadastre system The system will integrate data from various government agencies into a unified database, streamline information exchange, and reduce paperwork. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev honors UWW chief Nenad Lalovi with the Order of Friendship President Shavkat Mirziyoyev has presented the Order of Friendship to Nenad Lalovi , President of the international combat sports federation United World Wrestling UWW , in recognition of his significant personal contribution to the development and promotion of mass sports and martial arts. Kun official channel
Tashkent expands its fleet with over two hundred Chinese-made electric buses A ceremonial event was held to welcome 202 new Yutong electric buses delivered from China. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan open to cooperation with rights organizations that respect its tradions and mentality Abdulaziz Kamilov Uzbekistan s Presidential Adviser on Foreign Policy, Abdulaziz Kamilov, said the country remains open to cooperation with human rights organizations but will not accept every recommendation without consideration. If it suits us we will work together. If it does not align with our mentality and traditions, we will not accept it, he stated. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan suffers a narrow defeat against Uruguay The Uzbekistan national football team fell short in a closely contested friendly match against Uruguay, losing 1 2 in a game played on October 13 in Malaysia. Kun official channel
Nearly 300 people convicted for domestic violence in Uzbekistan over eight months The number of citizens held administratively and criminally responsible for sexual harassment and domestic violence in Uzbekistan has been reported. Kun official channel
Andijan authorities under investigation for embezzling UZS 247.5 million through false social contracts Authorities in Andijan are under investigation for embezzling UZS 247.5 million by creating fraudulent documents in the names of 25 unemployed women, the Anti-Corruption Agency reported. Kun official channel
Ravshan Irmatov named Deputy Chair of FIFA s Technology and Innovation Committee Representatives from Uzbekistan, including the First Vice President of the Uzbekistan Football Association UFA Ravshan Irmatov, have for the first time in history been appointed to three committees of the International Federation of Association Football FIFA . Kun official channel
UzPost confirms investor talks but dismisses takeover rumors Following reports that shares in UzPost had been acquired by Russia s online marketplace Wildberries, the national postal operator confirmed it is indeed seeking investment but clarified that no ownership changes have taken place. The company stated that any future changes involving a major investor will be officially disclosed in line with Uzbek law. Kun official channel
Samarkand s landmark mushroom house to be fully torn down after safety concerns The demolition of a 12-story building in Samarkand district built by citizen Furqat Khalilov and declared seismically unsafe is underway, with only four floors left standing. Kun official channel
Tashkent Metro delays relaunch of 30 Years of Independence route The reopening of 14 stations on Tashkent Metro s above-ground Circle Line originally expected on October 18 has been postponed until around November 1. The metro administration explained that the delay aims to double train speed compared to previous levels and minimize time intervals between trains. Kun official channel
Tourist trips from Uzbekistan surge, driven by growth in regional travel Since the beginning of the year, 5.2 million Uzbek citizens have traveled abroad, according to the National Statistics Committee. China and Vietnam entered the top 10 destinations for the first time. Kun official channel
Amazon may launch Kuiper satellite internet in Uzbekistan The company plans to cooperate with the Ministry of Digital Technologies to enhance the country s digital infrastructure. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan wins top BIE award at Expo 2025 Osaka for innovative pavilion concept The Uzbekistan pavilion at Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, has received the gold medal for Theme development the highest distinction presented by the Bureau International des Expositions BIE . The BIE Awards honor pavilions that best embody the Expo s vision through creativity, innovation, and cultural expression. Regarded as one of the most prestigious recognitions at World Expos, the award highlights exceptional achievements in design, storytelling, and contribution to the Expo s overarching theme. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to abolish minimum export prices for fruits and vegetables According to a presidential decree, the practice of setting minimum export prices for fruit and vegetable products will be discontinued. The system, introduced last year, had been criticized by analysts as a blow to fruit and vegetable exports. Minimum export prices will, however, remain in place for the other three categories of goods. Kun official channel
Akbar Djuraev sets world record and wins triple gold at weightlifting championships Uzbek athlete Akbar Djuraev won three gold medals at the World Weightlifting Championships held in F rde, Norway, becoming a three-time world champion. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva discusses new cooperation opportunities with EU Commissioner in Brussels During her visit to Brussels, head of the Presidential Administration of Uzbekistan Saida Mirziyoyeva met with European Commissioner for International Partnerships Josef S kela. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan introduces mobile app for passenger customs declarations Passengers entering or leaving Uzbekistan can now submit their customs declarations online through a mobile app. Instead of manually typing in IMEI codes for devices with SIM cards, users can simply scan them in the app. For now, this convenience is available only at Tashkent International Airport but will be introduced at all border checkpoints starting from November 1. Kun official channel
Construction of Uzbekistan s first nuclear power plant kicks off in Jizzakh Excavation work has begun in Forish district for the foundation of a small-scale nuclear power plant NPP reactor building. The first concrete pouring is scheduled for March 2026. According to Rosatom head Alexey Likhachev, Uzbekistan and Russia are taking a step toward nuclear cooperation that will last for decades. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to allow 150 km h speed limit on new toll highways Drivers in Uzbekistan will soon be able to travel at speeds of up to 150 kilometers per hour on new paid highways, according to Hasan Umarov, chief legal counsel at the Committee for Automobile Roads. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva meets European Commission Vice President Kaja Kallas During the meeting, the parties discussed global and regional issues of mutual interest. Kun official channel
Greenhouses granted new tax breaks and interest-free debt extension Social tax rate for greenhouses will be reduced to 1 until the end of 2028. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s car market sees growing competition as Chevrolet share drops In January-September 2025, Chevrolet-branded cars accounted for 83 percent of all new vehicle sales in Uzbekistan down from 89 percent during the same period in 2024. The best-selling model was the Cobalt, followed by the Damas and the Tracker. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev urges CIS countries to jointly invest in Afghanistan s reconstruction projects At the CIS Heads of State Council meeting in Dushanbe on October 10, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev urged CIS nations to jointly invest in Afghanistan s reconstruction to promote peace and stability. He proposed enhancing trade, transport, energy, digital cooperation, and mutual investments, while emphasizing the CIS s stability and relevance amid global challenges. Kun official channel
Travel from Uzbekistan to Europe up 38 in 2025 In the first nine months of the year, the number of flight bookings from Uzbekistan to European destinations increased by 38 . The average duration of trips reached 19 days, while the share of family travel involving children rose by 7 . At the same time, the average ticket price dropped by 6.6 . Kun official channel
Uzbek citizen sentenced to three years for fighting in Ukraine following imprisonment in Russia A 27-year-old native of Pakhtachi district has been sentenced to three years in prison for taking part in the war against Ukraine. Kun official channel
Russia increases gas supplies to Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan by 15 Since the beginning of 2025, Russia has increased its natural gas supplies to Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan by 15 , Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller announced on 9 October during the plenary session of the St. Petersburg International Gas Forum. Kun official channel
Perceived inflation in Uzbekistan drops below 13 for the first time since spring 2024 Based on the September survey results, the average perceived price increase over the past 12 months amounted to 12.4 , down by 0.6 percentage points from August. The median indicator decreased slightly by 0.1 percentage points, reaching 10.7 . Kun official channel
Uzbekistan midfielder Abbos Fayzullayev sidelined for Uruguay friendly due to injury Uzbekistan national football team midfielder Abbos Fayzullayev has been ruled out of the upcoming international friendly against Uruguay due to an injury sustained during a recent match against Kuwait. Kun official channel
Economists criticize government s plan to tax copper wire exports Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Uzbekistan, Davron Vakhobov, announced that an export duty is expected to be introduced on copper wire. According to him, the purpose of the measure is to encourage enterprises to create added value. Economists Behzod Hoshimov and Otabek Bakirov criticized the proposal, calling it a misguided policy. Kun official channel
Mass food poisoning reported among kindergarten children in Jizzakh Dozens of children from several kindergartens in Jizzakh region were hospitalized this week after showing symptoms of food poisoning. Most have since recovered, while two remain under medical supervision. Kun official channel
18-year-old man convicted for insulting the president on An 18-year-old resident of Ahangaran has been convicted after posting an offensive comment under the president s photo on . A linguistic examination concluded that the remark contained insulting language directed at the head of state. During the trial, the defendant admitted guilt and said he had written the comment without considering its consequences. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan appoints new ambassador to Iraq Ayubkhon Yunusov, who also serves as Uzbekistan s ambassador to Kuwait, has been appointed as the country s new ambassador to Iraq. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to conduct national population census from January 15, 2026 The official start of the nationwide population census in Uzbekistan has been set for January 15, 2026, and will last for 45 days. Each respondent will be counted according to their permanent or temporary place of residence. Kun official channel
More and more Uzbek youth in Russia are being forced to fight in Ukraine and dying will the government finally act? The Dostlik neighborhood in Payariq district of Samarkand region is a quiet shepherds settlement though in recent years, even the meaning of quiet has changed. Ahror, who had just graduated from school, went to Russia in search of work. A few months later, his family heard that he had been arrested and then sent to war. Some time after that, Ahror returned to his village but in a coffin. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev calls for stronger Central Asia Russia partnership amid global tensions President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev took part in the second Central Asia Russia summit held today in Dushanbe. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan secure confident 2 0 win over Kuwait in Tashkent Uzbekistan s national football team marked a strong start under new head coach Fabio Cannavaro, defeating Kuwait 2 0 in a friendly match held at the Olympic Stadium in Tashkent on October 9. Kun official channel
Trial begins over police abuse case that shocked Fergana region Court proceedings have begun in the case of Gulirano Qosimova, a woman who was reportedly humiliated by police officers in Fergana. The criminal case against former head of the Furqat district police department DIA Akmal Khojayev and his first deputy, Jasur Rasulov, is being reviewed by the Kuva District Criminal Court. A Kun reporter attended the hearing and prepared a report. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s small nuclear power plant to cost under 1 billion According to Abdujamil Kalmuratov, head of the Nuclear Power Plant Construction Directorate, the 110 MW nuclear power station being built in Uzbekistan will cost taxpayers less than 1 billion. Earlier, it was reported that the project would cost under 2 billion, but at that time the plan was for a 330 MW facility. The inconsistency between the reduced capacity and the smaller cost may mean that the production cost of electricity generated by the plant could increase in the future. Kun official channel
Foreign nationals in Uzbekistan can now extend visas online Foreign citizens and stateless persons can now submit applications for visa extension online in the Citizenship section of the Unified Interactive Public Services Portal. To do so, they must fill out an electronic form, attach a copy of their passport or travel document , and provide a document confirming the reason for extending the visa. Kun official channel
Judge with justice religious scholar Mubashshir Ahmad s final address before imprisonment The religious scholar Alisher Tursunov, better known as Mubashshir Ahmad, was sentenced to two and a half years in prison on October 8. A Kun correspondent who attended the hearing recorded his final statement before the court. Kun official channel
Palestinian Ambassador completes diplomatic mission in Uzbekistan Palestinian Ambassador Jawad Mohammad Awad is completing his diplomatic mission in Uzbekistan after serving for three and a half years. Kun official channel
Price of gold per gram rises above UZS 1.6 million in Uzbekistan New purchase prices for gold bars have been set in Uzbekistan, according to data published by the Central Bank as of October 9. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to face Kuwait today under new head coach Fabio Cannavaro The Uzbekistan national team will play a friendly match against Kuwait today in Tashkent under the new head coach Fabio Cannavaro. The match starts at 18 00 Tashkent time. Kun official channel
37 people detained in Bukhara for illegal gold mining In the Quljuqtov mountain range of Shofirkon district, 37 individuals were detained for illegally extracting gold. Their actions caused damage to state and public interests estimated at more than UZS 20 billion. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan appoints its first ambassador to Monaco Nodir Ganiyev, who serves as Uzbekistan s ambassador to France and Portugal, has been appointed as the country s first ambassador to the Principality of Monaco. Kun official channel
Central Bank to examine credit card fees charged by banks after consumer complaints The Competition Promotion and Consumer Protection Committee has submitted a request to the Central Bank of Uzbekistan to address issues concerning citizens rights in credit card operations carried out by commercial banks. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s international reserves reach historic 55 billion mark As of October 1, 2025, Uzbekistan s official reserve assets reached 54.99 billion an all-time record for the country. Since the beginning of the year, global gold prices have surged by nearly 50 percent. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev to visit Tajikistan President Shavkat Mirziyoyev will visit Tajikistan on October 9 10 at the invitation of President Emomali Rahmon for a working trip. Kun official channel
Scholar Mubashshir Ahmad sentenced to two and a half years in prison Renowned religious scholar and educator Alisher Tursunov, better known as Mubashshir Ahmad, has been sentenced to two years and six months in prison by the Uchtepa District Court in Tashkent. Kun official channel
Tashkent residents report multiple charges for trips they didn t take, ATTO comments Social media users in Tashkent have been actively discussing cases where people receive messages about payments for public transport rides, even though they never left home. Some report having money withdrawn between 5 and 18 times in a single day. Users claim they did not use public transport on the days the charges appeared. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s job market sees surge in vacancies but steep fall in salary offers Average salaries offered on the HeadHunter job platform dropped by 20.2 in the third quarter of 2025, with some sectors seeing declines of up to 72 , according to a new report. Kun official channel
Sales of expired goods to be automatically blocked in Uzbekistan from March 2026 Starting March 2026, products with expired shelf life and digital labeling will no longer be processed through cash registers in Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Car imports to Uzbekistan surge following closure of Piskent testing ground In September this year, Uzbekistan s imports of passenger cars rose sharply up 2.25 times in value terms and 2.22 times in quantity. The largest increase was recorded in electric vehicle imports, which grew 3.5 times. Imports of gasoline cars also rose by 48 percent, while imports of hybrid vehicles continued to decline. Kun official channel
Uzbek woman posing as Shoigu s niece accused of stealing over 100 million rubles in Moscow Sherekhon Osmonova changed her passport details to the name Shere Shoigu, deceived Moscow residents by pretending to be related to Russia s Security Council secretary, and later disappeared with their money. Kun official channel
Transport Ministry outlines new measures to reduce traffic congestion in Tashkent The Ministry of Transport has provided a detailed response to a parliamentary inquiry regarding traffic congestion in Tashkent and the integration of public transport into a unified metropolitan system. Kun official channel
Government agencies to reduce workforce following digitalization decree Under a presidential decree, 2,141 positions will be cut across republican executive bodies. The number of deputy heads in committees, agencies, and inspections will be reduced by 16. Kun official channel
Violence, corruption, and cover-ups scandals rock Fergana s police department The number of crimes and illegal acts committed by police officers in Fergana region has been increasing a district inspector driving drunk beat a man to death, the regional traffic police chief canceled fines issued to his wife s Malibu under the table , officers pointed a gun at a farmer, and even staged a fake operation during which a woman was stripped naked and beaten. This wave of lawlessness has worsened over the past two years the period when Azizbek Ikromov has headed the regional Department of Internal Affairs DIA . Kun official channel
Interior Minister takes charge of Uzbekistan s MMA Association Aziz Tashpulatov has become the new chairman of Uzbekistan s Mixed Martial Arts MMA Association. Kun official channel
Thirteen Uzbeks held in Tula for eight months say ministry and embassy has failed to help Thirteen Uzbek citizens have been held for eight months in a temporary detention facility in Russia s Tula region, as previously reported by Kun. Following that report, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs MFA said diplomats from Uzbekistan s embassy in Russia were aware of the situation and had taken it under control. However, nothing has changed since then five of the detainees are women, and they remain in difficult conditions. Kun official channel
Tashkent Metro grants lifetime free rides to mother and baby born at station A baby girl born at Tashkent Metro s Gafur Gulyam station and her mother will be able to use the metro free of charge for life. Kun official channel
Inflation expectations among consumers and businesses ease slightly in September In September, inflation expectations among Uzbekistan s population and businesses declined slightly. People and entrepreneurs now expect prices to rise by around 12 percent over the next 12 months. The perceived inflation rate decreased by 0.6 percentage points to 12.4 percent. Kun official channel
Meta may open a regional office in Uzbekistan The National Agency of Perspective Projects NAPP held a meeting with representatives of Meta to discuss the potential opening of a representative office in Uzbekistan. The discussions also covered cooperation in advertising promotion, fraud prevention on Meta platforms, content monetization, and support for local digital content creators. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan establishes framework for managing state defense orders A new law has been adopted in Uzbekistan to regulate the process of forming and executing the state defense order, which defines the key objectives of ensuring timely and reliable supply of the Armed Forces with military and dual-use products. Kun official channel
Deputies approve amendments to ban filming citizens without their consent New regulations prohibit filming minors without the consent of their parents or guardians. Kun official channel
Tashkent to expand public transport fleet with 200 new electric buses in October Tashkent will receive 200 new electric buses in October 2025 and an additional 1,000 buses in 2026. As a result, the total number of buses operating in the capital will reach 2,891, with the average route duration expected to be 30 minutes and the annual number of passengers transported projected to reach 750 million. Kun official channel
Yuksalish movement calls for easing import rules and simplifying device registration through UzIMEI The Yuksalish nationwide movement has proposed transferring the authority to set tariffs, limits, and rates in Uzbekistan from the government to parliament. The initiative also suggests simplifying registration procedures and making them free via the UzIMEI system in certain cases. Kun official channel
Japan s Sojitz to build new international airport in Tashkent under 1 billion investment plan Japanese trading and investment conglomerate Sojitz Corporation is set to begin construction of a new international airport in Tashkent, marking a key step in its 1 billion infrastructure investment drive in Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev calls for industrial alliance and green corridors among Turkic states At the OTS summit in Gabala on October 7, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev announced a series of major initiatives aimed at strengthening unity and enhancing the role of the Turkic world in global politics, the economy, and the humanitarian sphere. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan launches tax incentives to attract foreign investors The government will exempt foreigners overseas income from tax under new regime. Kun official channel
Passenger train collides with truck in Karakalpakstan A passenger train carrying 216 people collided with a truck in Karakalpakstan on October 6. None of the passengers were injured, while the truck driver was hospitalized. This marks the second collision between a passenger train and a truck in the region over the past two months. Kun official channel
IMRS Dollar decline drives rent hikes in Tashkent IMRS experts analyzed rental prices offered in Tashkent in September 2025 and compared them with August figures. The findings show that dollar-denominated rents have risen compared to the previous month. The start of the new academic year may also have influenced the expectations of landlords, leading to higher asking prices. Kun official channel
AFC fines Uzbekistan Football Association 340,000 for unauthorized post-match ceremony The Asian Football Confederation AFC has fined the Uzbekistan Football Association UFA for several violations during the 2026 FIFA World Cup qualifying match between Uzbekistan and Qatar, held on June 10 this year in Tashkent. Kun official channel
Ombudsman demands full investigation into case of woman abused by police in Fergana The Senate Committee on Defense and Security has taken the case involving officers of the Furqat district Department of Internal Affairs DIA in Fergana region under parliamentary oversight. The case concerns a woman who was allegedly beaten and filmed naked by police officers. Kun official channel
Tashkent court convicts man for using forged IDs to impersonate officials A man who falsely claimed to be an employee of the Presidential Administration and the State Security Service has been convicted in Tashkent. The fake officer was detained in the Yakkasaray district after presenting a counterfeit identification card of the State Security Service to a road patrol inspector. Kun official channel
Saida Mirziyoyeva meets children recovering from surgeries in Karakalpakstan The nationwide health marathon, Salomatlik marafoni, is taking place in Karakalpakstan, aiming to make self-care and caring for loved ones part of daily life. According to Saida Mirziyoyeva, head of the Presidential Administration, medical examinations are being conducted in 12 family clinics and three public locations in Nukus. Kun official channel
Baby born at Tashkent metro station A woman gave birth to a child at the Gafur Gulyam metro station in Tashkent. The delivery was assisted by the station duty officer responsible for train arrivals and departures. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan moves to increase accountability of government and regional leaders in fight against corruption According to the new draft law, when a candidate for the position of regional governor is being considered by the respective Council of People s Deputies, they will be required to present not only a regional socio-economic development program but also an action plan for preventing corruption in the region. Kun official channel
UFA dismisses salary rumors as Cannavaro heads Uzbekistan national team According to UFA Vice President Ravshan Ermatov, Cannavaro has signed a 2 3-year contract, reflecting the association s long-term vision for collaboration. The main goal set before the new head coach is to prepare the national team for a strong performance at the upcoming FIFA World Cup. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev arrives in Azerbaijan on a working visit At Gabala International Airport, the Uzbek leader was welcomed by Azerbaijan s Minister of Culture Adil Karimli, Head of Gabala District Executive Authority Sabuhi Abdullayev, and other officials. Kun official channel
Fabio Cannavaro becomes head coach of Uzbekistan national team Italian football legend, 2006 World Cup champion, and Ballon d Or winner Fabio Cannavaro has been officially appointed as the head coach of Uzbekistan s national football team. Kun official channel
Earthquake in Kyrgyzstan causes flight disruptions in Tashkent Two flights approaching Tashkent airport were forced to alter their routes on October 6 due to a seismic event in neighboring Kyrgyzstan. Among them was an Aeroflot flight from Moscow, which had to circle twice before safely landing at 01 50 local time. A MyFreighter flight from Athens faced a similar situation, holding in the air for some time before receiving clearance to land. Kun official channel
SSS detains corrupt officials in Tashkent, Fergana, Samarkand, and Namangan regions A number of government officials in different regions of Uzbekistan have been detained on suspicion of corruption. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to extract hydrocarbons in Afghanistan Afghanistan s authorities have granted Uzbek companies a license to conduct geological exploration and extract hydrocarbons on Afghan territory, Minister of Energy Jurabek Mirzamakhmudov announced. He also underlined Afghanistan s importance for Uzbekistan and quoted Deputy Prime Minister Mullah Baradar s remarks about President Shavkat Mirziyoyev. Kun official channel
Housing prices cool in Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan but soar in Kyrgyzstan Ashgabat remains the most expensive city in Central Asia in terms of housing prices. The high cost of real estate in Turkmenistan s capital is explained by the complex and restrictive requirements for obtaining construction permits. By 2025, housing prices in Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan have begun to stabilize, while Kyrgyzstan is witnessing sharp growth. Kun analyzed apartment prices in the region s major cities and compared how affordable housing is relative to average monthly incomes. Kun official channel
ADB keeps Uzbekistan s growth forecast steady but warns of external risks The ADB expects Uzbekistan s economy to grow by 6.6 in 2025 and 6.7 in 2026, consistent with its April projections. Inflation forecasts also remain unchanged at 8 for this year and 7 for next year. Kun official channel
Four detained in Navoi for illegal crypto trading Law enforcement authorities in Navoi region have uncovered illegal cryptocurrency operations amounting to UZS 104 billion approximately 8.62 million . Kun official channel
US-based Gulf Oil plans to open up to 100 gas stations across Uzbekistan Uzbekneftegaz and US-based Gulf Oil signed a 100 million memorandum of understanding to establish a network of gas stations across the country. Kun official channel
Pension Fund rolls out Face ID system for cash recipients Pensioners who receive their benefits in cash will now undergo biometric identification Face ID and confirm receipt of funds with an electronic signature. Kun official channel
Shavkat Mirziyoyev to visit Azerbaijan The President of Uzbekistan will attend the upcoming summit of the Organization of Turkic States. Kun official channel
Tashkent tops global air pollution ranking As of 10 00 a.m. on October 6, the concentration of fine particulate matter PM2.5 in Tashkent s air reached 158 g m a level classified as unhealthy. Kun official channel
Leadership, AI, and startups INMerge 2025 highlights Central Eurasia s growing role in global innovation Baku hosted the fifth edition of the INMerge Innovation Summit from September 29 to 30, bringing together leading voices from across the global innovation ecosystem. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s gold reserves reach 366 tons after latest purchase In August, seven central banks increased their gold reserves by at least 1 ton among them Uzbekistan. According to the World Gold Council WGC , after purchasing 2 tons in August, Uzbekistan s total gold reserves reached 366 tons 17 tons less than at the end of 2024. Kun official channel
Central Bank introduces draft project to regulate installment trade market Under the new requirements, before signing a contract with a client, the following must be provided the full price of the product or service if paid upfront, the total amount payable including all markups and commissions, the payment schedule, and all types of fees and penalties. In addition, the use of misleading phrases such as 0 interest, free, or suitable for everyone in advertising materials will be prohibited. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan plans to attract 1.1 billion from EBRD Ambassador Ravshan Usmanov held a meeting with Milica Delevi , the newly appointed Secretary General of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development EBRD . Kun official channel
Uzbek product sales on Wildberries up 37 in nine months The main driver of growth was food products. In Russia, their sales grew 2.22 times in value terms and 2.55 times in volume. Belarus showed a similar trend, with growth of 2.25 and 2.45 times respectively. In Kyrgyzstan, demand for Uzbek food rose sharply turnover increased 2.5 times, while sales volume tripled. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Latvia hold talks on increasing flights and cargo volumes Uzbekistan has proposed that Latvia take measures to expand bilateral and transit cargo transportation, the Ministry of Transport reported. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan plans to open nuclear medicine center in 2026 Uzbekistan is planning to open a nuclear medicine center in 2026, a representative of the Uzatom Agency for Atomic Energy under the Cabinet of Ministers announced on September 26 at an exhibition held during World Nuclear Week in Moscow. Kun official channel
Namangan court sentences man to two years for fighting in Russia Ukraine war An Uzbek national who signed a contract with the Russian Ministry of Defense and served in the Russian Armed Forces under the call sign Ded as a mechanic operator has been sentenced to two years in prison. Kun official channel
State university students may receive partial rent refunds via my.gov portal Starting from November 1, 2025, students of state higher education institutions will be able to apply through the unified portal my.gov to receive a partial reimbursement of their monthly rent payments. Kun official channel
Six Uzbek nationals detained in Istanbul over drug trafficking suspicions Six citizens of Uzbekistan have been detained in Turkey on suspicion of involvement in the illegal trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Kun official channel
Samarkand to host International Astronautical Congress in 2028 The IAC in Samarkand is expected to attract more than 10,000 international guests and, through international exhibitions, deliver significant economic benefits to the tourism, services, and business sectors. Kun official channel
TBC Bank, Davr Bank, and Hamkorbank fined for misconduct The Central Bank of Uzbekistan has identified serious violations at three major financial institutions TBC Bank, Davr Bank, and Hamkorbank resulting in fines totaling UZS 2.5 billion. In addition, clients were refunded more than UZS 29 billion in excessively charged interest, fees, and payments. Kun official channel
Etihad Airways to launch regular Abu Dhabi Tashkent flights in March 2026 The airline will deploy Airbus A320 and A321 aircraft on the route, with six flights per week. Kun official channel
Criminal case launched against Drujba Travel after defrauding over 30 clients Dozens of citizens who paid the company Lastochka Planeta LLC operating under the brand Drujba Travel for trips abroad were deceived the company s officials neither refunded the money nor organized the promised tours. Among the victims were people who had paid more than 15,000. Some said that when they demanded their money back, they were even threatened and intimidated by men allegedly brought in by the firm s representatives. Kun official channel
Vehicles over 50 years old to be removed from register in Uzbekistan A draft resolution introducing amendments and additions to certain government decisions aimed at ensuring road traffic safety has been published. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s monthly inflation rises to 0.6 in September Monthly inflation in Uzbekistan reached 0.6 in September, 0.2 percentage points higher than in August, the National Statistics Committee reported. Kun official channel
AFC U23 Asian Cup draw places Uzbekistan in Group C Uzbekistan will face Lebanon, Iran, and South Korea in Group C. The tournament will be held in Saudi Arabia from January 7 25, 2026. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan appoints its first ambassador to South Africa Ashraf Khojaev has been appointed as Uzbekistan s first ambassador to the Republic of South Africa RSA . He will also continue to serve as the country s ambassador to Qatar. Kun official channel
Fabio Cannavaro to become new head coach of Uzbekistan national team He will lead the team in preparations for the 2026 World Cup. Kun official channel
Environmental damage in Uzbekistan amounts to 46.7 billion UZS in one month Numerous cases of illegal gravel extraction, tree cutting, poaching, and environmental pollution have been uncovered, according to the State Security Service SSS . Kun official channel
Uzbekistan ends auctions for car license plates, introduces fixed-price purchase Prestigious license plates in Uzbekistan will no longer be sold through auctions. Instead, starting October 1, they can be purchased directly without bidding. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan to host 2027 FIFA U-20 World Cup The FIFA Council has decided that Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan will co-host the 2027 FIFA U-20 World Cup. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s total external debt reaches 72.2 billion As of July 1, Uzbekistan s total external debt amounted to 72.2 billion. Of this, 36.8 billion was public external debt, while 35.4 billion was corporate external debt. The overall debt stock has grown by 8.1 billion since the beginning of the year. Meanwhile, the current account deficit narrowed to 156.3 million. Kun official channel
Court hearing in Mubashshir Ahmad case delayed for the third time in two weeks The trial of religious scholar Alisher Tursunov Mubashshir Ahmad , scheduled for today at the Uchtepa District Criminal Court, has been postponed until October 8. Aziz Obidov, spokesperson for the Supreme Court, told Kun that the presiding judge had gone on medical leave and stressed that there is no political issue here. The defense lawyer also confirmed that replacing the judge is not being considered. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to face Kuwait and Uruguay in October friendlies The Uzbekistan national football team will play friendly matches against Kuwait and Uruguay in October as part of its preparations for the FIFA World Cup. Kun official channel
Public hearings on nuclear power plant construction in Uzbekistan to begin soon Uzbekistan is set to launch public hearings on the construction of a nuclear power plant, with domestic and international experts participating to inform citizens about the project, the head of the Uzatom Agency said. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan eases foreign passport rules for citizens returned under readmission Uzbekistan has introduced new rules allowing citizens who have been returned to the country under readmission agreements to obtain foreign passports in exceptional circumstances. The measure is aimed at protecting their rights and ensuring access to travel abroad when urgently required. Kun official channel
SSS detains two in Namangan for unlicensed crypto trading The State Security Service SSS , together with the Namangan regional Department of Internal Affairs, has detained two residents for conducting unlicensed cryptocurrency operations as part of the Safe Region preventive operation. Kun official channel
Cashback payments to consumers exceed UZS 900 billion since January Consumers across Uzbekistan have received more than UZS 906.6 billion in cashback payments from the State Tax Committee since the beginning of this year. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan s ambassador presents credentials to Saudi Crown Prince Nodirjon Turgunov has presented his credentials to Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. Kun official channel
Uzbek citizen jailed for 10 years after escape from Russian penal colony A Russian court has sentenced an Uzbek citizen to 10 years in prison for escaping from a penal colony in Lipetsk region and resisting a police officer during his arrest. He was found guilty of using violence against a representative of authority. Kun official channel
Tashkent metro s overground ring line to resume operations on October 18 The stations of the 30th anniversary of Uzbekistan s independence overground ring line of the Tashkent metro were temporarily closed earlier to carry out scheduled maintenance work. Kun official channel
Natural gas production continues to fall in Uzbekistan amid shifts in energy output In January August 2025, Uzbekistan saw declines in the production of several key energy resources. Natural gas output decreased by 4 percent, crude oil production dropped by 10 percent, and gasoline output fell by 14 percent. In contrast, diesel fuel production rose by 10 percent, while overall electricity generation also increased. Large enterprises generated 15.5 percent less electricity, but small businesses boosted their production by 2.5 times. Kun official channel
Labor Inspectorate files lawsuit to recover unpaid wages of Air Samarkand employees The Ministry of Employment has announced that the Labor Inspectorate has filed lawsuits in defense of Air Samarkand employees who have not received their salaries. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan Football Association makes formal offer to Fabio Cannavaro for national team job This makes him the fifth specialist recently reported as a possible candidate to come to Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Fergana police threaten farmer with gun over grain quota Police officers who went to the home of Gayratjon Khayrullaev, head of the Buloqboshi Gulshani farm, on the order of the Rishtan district governor allegedly pointed a gun at him, accusing him of failing to meet the grain quota. The officers reportedly tried to take the farmer away by force. They ignored his child s plea not to harm his father and pushed his elderly mother, who fainted after falling. Kun official channel
Lost time, broken hopes and penalties for demanding refunds Why Imarat Development clients are dissatisfied Customers of Marat Khayrullaevich, who sells apartments under the brand name Imarat Development, have voiced strong complaints. A number of his projects attracted hundreds of buyers thanks to low prices and flexible payment terms. However, disputes between clients and the company soon began to emerge. The main reason was the company s practice of withholding a penalty of 10 12 percent of the apartment s total value from citizens who wanted to cancel contracts for unfinished apartments. Kun official channel
President Mirziyoyev congratulates teachers and mentors on their professional holiday October 1 is celebrated in Uzbekistan as Teachers and Mentors Day. Kun official channel
Faster, cheaper, and more effective Mediation gains ground in Uzbekistan s justice system Mediation is emerging in Uzbekistan as one of the most effective tools for resolving disputes. It is not merely a substitute for court proceedings but a process that prioritizes dialogue over confrontation and agreement over judgment. How does mediation affect business, the investment climate, and social relations? These and other questions are discussed in an interview with international expert and director of the Tashkent Mediation Center, Diyorbek Kimsanov. Kun official channel
Forbes Trump Mirziyoyev meeting big strategic win for both sides Among the few winners from the recent UNGA events must surely be Uzbekistan with this line, Forbes magazine opened its article titled Trump meeting with Uzbek President big strategic win for both sides. Kun official channel
Kindergartens in Tashkent region to reopen as most hospitalized children return home Medical measures related to the incident have been fully completed, and hospitals have resumed their regular operations. From 2 October, all preschools in the region will also reopen. Kun official channel
American blogger stuck in Uzbekistan for three days over unpaid fine An American tourist traveling the world in a Lamborghini was delayed in Uzbekistan for three days due to problems with paying a fine for overstaying his car s permitted period in the country. Kun official channel
Authorities seize over 130 tons of spoiled food from markets across Uzbekistan The Committee for Sanitary and Epidemiological Wellbeing and Public Health inspected 300 agricultural markets across the country. Kun official channel
Low-income households in Uzbekistan received UZS 17.3 billion in energy compensation over four months In August, low-income households in Uzbekistan received compensation payments totaling UZS 4.1 billion for electricity and natural gas, the Ministry of Energy reported. Kun official channel
Experts warn rivalry narratives in Kazakh media harm regional integration Kazakh media outlets have reported that Uzbekistan s President met with the US President during the UN session, while Kazakhstan s diplomacy failed to secure such a meeting and that this was allegedly one of the reasons behind a series of dismissals in the government. The Kun program Geopolitics discussed how such comparisons and a spirit of rivalry are not in the interests of either country. Kun official channel
Turkey s Anadolu Isuzu to acquire controlling stake in SamAuto for 80 million with major investment plan The automotive division of Turkey s Anadolu Isuzu, a subsidiary of Anadolu Group, is acquiring a 75.2 percent state-owned stake in the charter capital of the joint venture Samarkand Automobile Plant SamAuto for 80 million, the press service of the State Assets Management Agency SAMA reported. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan records 7.5 million foreign visitors in eight months, up nearly 50 percent More than two-thirds of trips 5.16 million were for family visits. Nearly 1.15 million foreigners came for leisure and recreation, 837,500 for official purposes, and 287,700 for business. In addition, just over 62,000 visitors came for medical treatment and 14,200 as international students. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to use space monitoring to detect illegal logging from 2026 Starting next year, the Agency Uzbekcosmos will carry out monitoring activities together with relevant government bodies. Kun official channel
Investor proposes 30-storey building at former Chorsu Hotel site despite master plan restrictions According to Tashkent s current master plan, no building higher than 20 storeys can be constructed on the site of the former Chorsu Hotel. However, a private investor has unveiled a project featuring a building exceeding 30 storeys. In response to a Kun inquiry, the head of the city s construction department said the project has not yet been submitted to the relevant authorities. Kun official channel
Mandatory scooter permits, end of license plate auctions and more changes taking effect from October 1 A range of new laws and regulations will come into force in Uzbekistan on 1 October 2025, covering areas from transport and urban development to judicial training and public administration. Kun official channel
Air Samarkand faces difficulties paying staff salaries Reports have surfaced that nearly 50 Russian nationals have not received salaries from Uzbekistan s Air Samarkand airline for three months. The company confirmed the issue, citing unexpected expenses that created financial challenges and pledging to prioritize repayment of wage arrears. Kun official channel
Uzbek chess players secure six medals at world youth championship in Peru Mukhiddin Madaminov has been crowned as world champion in youth chess. Kun official channel
Court postpones hearing in Mubashshir Ahmad case for another four days The trial of religious scholar Alisher Tursunov, better known as Mubashshir Ahmad, has been postponed until 2 October. According to the defense lawyer, the reason was the judge s illness. The defendant, who was arrested on 10 May, has been held in custody for nearly five months. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan signs labor migration agreement with South Korea The document provides for the issuance of E-7 work visas to qualified specialists from Uzbekistan. Young people with vocational education will be able to work and improve their skills at large industrial enterprises in Korea. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan to launch large nuclear power plant by 2033 The first power unit of a large nuclear power plant in Uzbekistan is scheduled to be launched in 2033, followed by the second in 2035, according to the director of the Agency for Nuclear Energy under the Cabinet of Ministers Uzatom , Azim Akhmedkhadjaev. He made the statement on 25 September at the World Nuclear Week international forum in Moscow. Kun official channel
Competition Committee Developers cannot retain funds from terminated contracts The Competition Committee has warned developers that imposing penalties on buyers for terminating housing contracts is unlawful. Kun official channel
Three Uzbek nationals wanted for financial crimes extradited from Turkey Turkish and Uzbek law enforcement agencies have detained three Uzbek citizens wanted on charges including fraud, tax evasion, and customs violations, and extradited them to Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Samarkand tourism firm chief caught in 96,000 US migration fraud The State Security Service SSS officers have detained the head of a tourism company in Samarkand for allegedly attempting to send three citizens illegally to the United States via Mexico. He demanded 96,000 for his service. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan joins nuclear liability convention, commits to compensating citizens in case of accidents Uzbekistan has formally assumed responsibility for compensating citizens in the event of a nuclear accident by joining the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage. Kun official channel
WTO hopes to welcome Uzbekistan as member in early 2026 Uzbekistan is nearing the final stages of negotiations to join the World Trade Organization WTO and could mark full membership as early as March 2026, according to the head of the organization. Kun official channel
PGO launches probe into preschool food poisoning cases in Tashkent region The Prosecutor General s Office has taken control of the investigation into recent child poisoning cases in Tashkent region and established a special task force led by First Deputy Prosecutor General Bakhodir Valiev. Kun official channel
Thirteen Uzbeks detained in Russia for eight months, seek help as embassy offers no support Kun received an appeal from Uzbek citizens being held at a temporary detention facility in Russia s Tula region. Among them are five women. The detainees, arrested for violating migration rules, said they had repeatedly appealed to the embassy and consular offices to be sent back to Uzbekistan, but no assistance has been provided so far. Kun official channel
Asaka Motors International and Rosatom discuss lithium-ion battery production in Uzbekistan Asaka Motors International, an automobile importer, and Rosatom s Fuel Division are exploring the localization of lithium-ion battery and energy storage system production in Uzbekistan. Kun official channel
Uzbekistan deepens ties with the US as Mirziyoyev pushes for higher exports and investment Uzbekistan is stepping up efforts to expand trade and investment, both at home and abroad, with President Shavkat Mirziyoyev setting ambitious targets and unveiling new initiatives to link the country s regions with individual US states. Kun official channel